Last week, you were introduced to
the generative AI project lifecycle.
You explored example use cases for
large language models and
discussed the kinds of tasks that
were capable of carrying out.
In this lesson, you'll learn about
methods that you can use to improve
the performance of an existing model for
your specific use case.
You'll also learn about important
metrics that can be used to evaluate
the performance of your finetuned LLM and
quantify its improvement over
the base model you started with.
Let's start by discussing how to fine
tune an LLM with instruction prompts.
Earlier in the course,
you saw that some models are capable of
identifying instructions
contained in a prompt and
correctly carrying out zero
shot inference, while others,
such as smaller LLMs, may fail to carry
out the task, like the example shown here.
You also saw that including one or more
examples of what you want the model to do,
known as one shot or few shot inference,
can be enough to help the model identify
the task and generate a good completion.
However, this strategy has
a couple of drawbacks.
First, for smaller models,
it doesn't always work,
even when five or
six examples are included.
Second, any examples you include in
your prompt take up valuable space
in the context window,
reducing the amount of room you have
to include other useful information.
Luckily, another solution exists,
you can take advantage of
a process known as fine-tuning
to further train a base model.
In contrast to pre-training,
where you train the LLM using vast
amounts of unstructured textual
data via selfsupervised learning,
fine-tuning is a supervised learning
process where you use a data
set of labeled examples to
update the weights of the LLM.
The labeled examples
are prompt completion pairs,
the fine-tuning process extends
the training of the model to improve
its ability to generate good
completions for a specific task.
One strategy,
known as instruction fine tuning,
is particularly good at improving a
model's performance on a variety of tasks.
Let's take a closer
look at how this works,
instruction fine-tuning trains
the model using examples that
demonstrate how it should respond
to a specific instruction.
Here are a couple of example
prompts to demonstrate this idea.
The instruction in both examples
is classify this review,
and the desired completion is
a text string that starts with
sentiment followed by either positive or
negative.
The data set you use for training includes
many pairs of prompt completion examples
for the task you're interested in,
each of which includes an instruction.
For example, if you want to fine
tune your model to improve its
summarization ability, you'd build
up a data set of examples that begin
with the instruction summarize,
the following text or a similar phrase.
And if you are improving
the model's translation skills,
your examples would include instructions
like translate this sentence.
These prompt completion examples
allow the model to learn to generate
responses that follow
the given instructions.
Instruction fine-tuning,
where all of the model's weights
are updated is known as full fine-tuning.
The process results in a new version
of the model with updated weights.
It is important to note that just like
pre-training, full fine tuning requires
enough memory and compute budget to
store and process all the gradients,
optimizers and other components that
are being updated during training.
So you can benefit from
the memory optimization and
parallel computing strategies
that you learned about last week.
So how do you actually go about
instruction, fine-tuning and LLM?
The first step is to
prepare your training data.
There are many publicly available
datasets that have been used to
train earlier generations
of language models,
although most of them are not
formatted as instructions.
Luckily, developers have assembled prompt
template libraries that can be used
to take existing datasets, for example,
the large data set of Amazon product
reviews and turn them into instruction
prompt datasets for fine-tuning.
Prompt template libraries include many
templates for different tasks and
different data sets.
Here are three prompts that
are designed to work with the Amazon
reviews dataset and
that can be used to fine tune models for
classification, text generation and
text summarization tasks.
You can see that in each case you pass the
original review, here called review_body,
to the template, where it gets inserted
into the text that starts with
an instruction like predict the associated
rating, generate a star review,
or give a short sentence describing
the following product review.
The result is a prompt that now
contains both an instruction and
the example from the data set.
Once you have your instruction data
set ready, as with standard supervised
learning, you divide the data set into
training validation and test splits.
During fine tuning, you select prompts
from your training data set and
pass them to the LLM,
which then generates completions.
Next, you compare the LLM completion with
the response specified
in the training data.
You can see here that the model
didn't do a great job,
it classified the review as neutral,
which is a bit of an understatement.
The review is clearly very positive.
Remember that the output of an LLM is
a probability distribution across tokens.
So you can compare the distribution
of the completion and
that of the training label and
use the standard crossentropy function to
calculate loss between
the two token distributions.
And then use the calculated loss to update
your model weights in
standard backpropagation.
You'll do this for many batches of prompt
completion pairs and over several epochs,
update the weights so that the model's
performance on the task improves.
As in standard supervised learning,
you can define separate evaluation
steps to measure your LLM performance
using the holdout validation data set.
This will give you
the validation accuracy, and
after you've completed your fine tuning,
you can perform a final performance
evaluation using
the holdout test data set.
This will give you the test accuracy.
The fine-tuning process results in
a new version of the base model,
often called an instruct model that is
better at the tasks you are interested in.
Fine-tuning with instruction prompts is
the most common way to
fine-tune LLMs these days.
From this point on, when you hear or
see the term fine-tuning,
you can assume that it always
means instruction fine tuning.